oauth client identity blog post (#1184)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-06-01-oauth-public-client-identity.md

## Gaining privileged API access

Some services may restrict certain APIs for use only by specific clients. If the service has some APIs that should only be called from a particular mobile app, the service may want to reject requests made from other apps that are accessing other parts of the system. Additionally, some services may set different API rate limits for different clients depending on the trust level of the developer or whether the client is a first-party or third-party client. 

> In order to do this, the API needs to know which client an access token was issued to. Typically the authorization server will embed the application's client_id in one of the claims of the access token so that it's accessible to the API when it validates the token. Of course this information is only as good as the authorization server's confidence that it was really that app making the token request. Again, if the client can authenticate itself, then this is reasonably reliable. But for public clients, there is much less certainty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to do this, the API needs to know which client an access token was issued to. Typically, the authorization server will embed the application's client_id in one of the claims of the access token. In this way, the client_id is accessible to the API when it validates the token. Of course, this information is only as good as the authorization server's confidence that it was really that app making the token request. Again, if the client can authenticate itself, then this is reasonably reliable. But for public clients, there is much less certainty.
```
This sentence was tripping me up when re-reading, so I made it 2 simpler sentences

### Is client impersonation a problem unique to OAuth?

Client impersonation is relevant to OAuth for the reasons previously mentioned, but those issues may also be relevant to systems that don't use OAuth at all. 

This is a pervasive problem with mobile app games. Let's take a simple example of building a leaderboard service for a mobile game application. For the sake of the example, let's assume the app doesn't have any concept of user accounts, and wants to show a high score leaderboard in the game from all users of the app worldwide. In order for the game server to collect the high score data, it provides an API endpoint that the game can report scores to. The API would like to only accept POST requests from real instances of the game app, and not people who are trying to cheat and send fake scores to the API. 

Without the support of the mobile operating system, there's nothing in the API call that can authenticate the mobile app, since any HTTP request the app makes would be possible for anyone to mimic outside of the application.

### Does PKCE solve client impersonation?

> Nope! This is a common point of confusion, likely because of how PKCE was originally developed and rolled out. PKCE was originally described as a way for a mobile app to do the authorization code flow safely. But keep in mind this was back in 2015 when the previous advice was for mobile apps to use the Implicit flow, or the authorization code flow without credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nope! This is a common point of confusion, likely because of how PKCE was originally developed and rolled out. PKCE was originally described as a way for a mobile app to do the authorization code flow safely. But keep in mind this was back in 2015 when mobile apps were still advised to use the Implicit flow or the authorization code flow without credentials.
```
more clarifying/simplifying

### Does the BFF pattern solve client impersonation?

The BFF pattern, short for "backend for frontend", is the idea of running a backend service to supplement a single-page application. There are multiple variations of how this can be deployed, some of which are documented in the [OAuth for Browser-Based Apps](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-browser-based-apps#section-6) draft specification.

The key difference this makes with regard to OAuth client impersonation is that your backend can be the OAuth client and can use client authentication. If the backend holds the tokens without sending them to the SPA at all, then the tokens can never leak to an impersonating application. While this might sound good at first, your backend has no assurances that any requests made to it are from the legitimate SPA, so the problem is only half solved. This does makes the problem less severe, since someone trying to take advantage of client impersonation wouldn't be able to actually get the access token itself, but would only be able to trick the backend into making API requests with that access token.

## Future solutions for client impersonation

> I mentioned this had been a recurring theme in the recent discussions within the OAuth community at the last several events. I presented a session about client impersonation specifically in mobile apps at the OAuth Security Workshop. The session wasn't recorded, but [I posted the slides here](https://speakerdeck.com/aaronpk/app-integrity-attestations-for-oauth-oauth-security-workshop-2022). In that session, I suggested the idea of leveraging Apple and Google's app attestation APIs as a form of client authentication. In a side discussion after the talk, we heard from a group who had actually implemented that for a client recently, which was a nice  validation of the concept. Separately, George Fletcher [presented a session at EIC 2022](https://www.kuppingercole.com/sessions/5063/2) the following week about nearly the same topic! I'm glad to see this recognized as a need for mobile apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I mentioned this had been a recurring theme in the recent discussions within the OAuth community at the last several events. I presented a session about client impersonation specifically in mobile apps at the recent [OAuth Security Workshop](https://oauth.secworkshop.events/osw2022). The session wasn't recorded, but [I posted the slides here](https://speakerdeck.com/aaronpk/app-integrity-attestations-for-oauth-oauth-security-workshop-2022). In that session, I suggested the idea of leveraging Apple and Google's app attestation APIs as a form of client authentication. In a side discussion after the talk, we heard from a group who had actually implemented that for a client recently, which was a nice  validation of the concept. Separately, George Fletcher [presented a session at EIC 2022](https://www.kuppingercole.com/sessions/5063/2) the following week about nearly the same topic! I'm glad to see this recognized as a need for mobile apps.
```
contextual link
